# Rippling API Guides: 401(k)

Rippling's 401(k) API enables 3rd-parties to directly integrate with Rippling's payroll system for 180° and 360° connections. 180° or 360° integrations connect payroll data to benefit provider systems. 180° connections allow benefit providers or record-keeping systems to pull employee contribution data – these integrations are “one-way” only. 360° integrations are two-way, and the 3rd-party providers can push employee election rates back to the Rippling payroll system.

> Please note, 401(k) integrations require a formalized partnership with Rippling prior to deployment. To begin the partnership process, please submit a [Development Package](https://developer.rippling.com/docs/rippling-api/docs/Submit/development-package.md) indicating your application will provide 401(k) services within the integration description. Additionally, you may reach out to apps.partnerships@rippling.com with any questions.

## Setting up the Integration

### Getting Started

Before you begin, you'll need to enable Rippling's token authorization. Please the [authorization documentation](https://developer.rippling.com/docs/rippling-api/docs/Getting-Started/f-Authorization.md) for more details on how you will use access tokens to retrieve authorized client information. 

### Pulling Employee Contribution Data
Once you've retrieved the proper authorization from the customer, your application will need to pull over employee contribution data.

To pull company contribution data, the application will first need to pull the relevant payroll run for the customer's organization.



```js
curl --request GET \
  --url https://api.rippling.com/platform/api/payroll_runs \
  --header 'authorization: REDACTED'
```

### Pushing Contribution Information

#### Setting up Tiered Matches
Organizations can set up multiple tiered matching schemas according to their needs. The matching schemeas are defined by tier numbers. The tier numbers define the order in which the matching scheme is to be applied, starting from tier 1 to tier n.

#### Switching Tiered Matches
To switch an employee's tiered match, that employee needs to be first removed from the current matching scheme, and then added to the new one. Please note that an employee can only be a part of one matching scheme at a time, and updates which violate this are rejected with a HTTP 409 (CONFLICT) error.

## Key Terms

### Company Deduction Types (CDTs)
Company deduction types (CDTs) are company wide contribution and deductions settings for a particular deduction type (401K, Roth 401K, etc). These apply to every employee in the company, and can be overridden by the employee deduction types, as applicable.

### Employee Deduction Types (EDTs)
Employee deduction types are employee-level overrides for company deduction types, and inherit the company level settings by default. These are to be used to set up employee specific configurations.

### Tiered Match
Many employers match an employee's 401(k) contributions according to a defined tier schema.

For example, a company may decide to match 100 percent of an employee's 401(k) contribution up to 4 percent of the employee's gross wages. Then, a company may decide to match 50 percent of an employee’s 401(k) contribution from 4.1 percent through 5 percent of the employee’s gross wages. The employee can decide to withhold more than 5 percent of the gross wages. However, the amount that exceeds 5 percent of the gross wages is not matched by the company.

### Percentage Contributions
Rippling supports 401(k) deductions that are defined as a percentage of an employee's compensation. In this case, an employee might select to defer 3% of their paycheck, which will be calculated using their present compensation and contributed to their 401(k) plan.

### Flat Dollar Contributions
Rippling supports 401(k) deductions that are defined as a flat dollar amount of an employee's compensation. In this case, an employee might select to defer $200 of their paycheck, which will be deducted and contributed to their 401(k) plan.

### Employee Contribution Limits
Employee contributions limits can be used to cap the amount of employee contributions to an employee’s 401K and Roth 401K. These can be set up as the field caps.employee_401k_limit in the deductions_401k endpoint.

### Company Contribution Limits
Company contributions limits are used to cap the amount of company contributions to an employee’s 401(k). These can be set up as the field caps.traditional or caps.roth in the deductions_401k endpoint.

### 401(k) Tiered Matching Schemes

The matchingScheme401k enums are to be used to specify the tiers of the employee match. Rippling offers pre-defined enums (SAFE_HARBOR_BASIC, SAFE_HARBOR_ENHANCED) for certain safe harbor matching schemes as defined. The enum CUSTOM is to be used for any other matching scheme, and employerMatch401K needs to be set up appropriately for this enum. Please note that employerMatch401K can be set up if and only if matchingScheme401K is CUSTOM.

Please note that the Safe Harbor Non Elective matching is not actually a tiered match, and is not included in this list.
Safe Harbor Non Elective matches needs to be set up using the CDTs and EDTs, without using the tiered match models.

#### Safe Harbor Basic
100% match on the first 3% of deferred compensation, 50% match on the next 2% of deferred compensation (total 4%).

#### Safe Harbor Enhanced
100% match on the first 4% of deferred compensation.

#### Custom
Any n tiered matching scheme (one or more tiers). Ex: 50% match on the first 6% of deferred compensation, 25% match on the next 4% of deferred compensation.

## Frequently Asked Questions

### What is a 401(k)?
A 401(k) plan is a qualified plan that includes a feature allowing an employee to elect to have the employer contribute a portion of the employee’s wages to an individual account under the plan. The underlying plan can be a profit-sharing, stock bonus, pre-ERISA money purchase pension, or a rural cooperative plan. Generally, deferred wages (elective deferrals) are not subject to federal income tax withholding at the time of deferral, and they are not reported as taxable income on the employee’s individual income tax return.

401(k) plans are permitted to allow employees to designate some or all of their elective deferrals as “Roth elective deferrals” that are generally subject to taxation under the rules applicable to Roth IRAs. Roth deferrals are included in the employee's taxable income in the year of the deferral.

For more information on 401(k)s, please view [this article on 401(k) plans](https://www.irs.gov/retirement-plans/plan-sponsor/401k-plan-overview).

### How many company deduction types can a company have?
A company can have at most one company deduction type of a certain type. This means that a company can set up at most one 401K or Roth 401K CDT.

### How would a company set up deductions when some employees use flat dollar deductions and some employees use percentage contribution types?
A company should set up their CDTs as either flat dollar deductions or percentage deductions, and then use the EDTs to set up employee specific values. Please note that the CDT values will be used for an employee whose EDT is not set up to override the CDT (i.e. EDTs default to the CDT).